![](AT_Turret.jpg "fig:AT_Turret.jpg")\]\] The
[Ancient-Tech](Ancient-Tech "wikilink") Turret is found in the
[Caverns](Caverns "wikilink") of [Auraxis](Auraxis "wikilink"). They
fire energy projectiles at a fairly rapid rate, with sufficient reserves
of energy to fire 100 projectiles. Its reserves automatically recharge
if the turret weapon is not fired for a few seconds.

The turret is similar in range and effectiveness to the
[Phalanx](Phalanx "wikilink") Wall Turret found on surface
[Facilities](Facilities "wikilink"), and is effective against all types
of targets. Ancient Sentry Turrets can be found in far more varied and
numerous locations than the Phalanx.

As with the [Phalanx](Phalanx "wikilink"), these turrets can be
temporarily disabled by [EMP](EMP "wikilink") blasts or grenades, and
destroyed fairly quickly by [AV](Anti-Vehicular "wikilink") weaponry.

Unlike the Phalanx, these turrets are not 'owned' by any particular
[Facility](Facility "wikilink") or [Empire](Empire "wikilink"). This
means they never auto-fire, even if shot, and so must be manned to fire
at all. The turret's name will appear red unless manned by a friendly
trooper, even unoccupied. Unless it is occupied by an enemy soldier or
destroyed, anyone may use any of these turrets at any time, and they do
not need to be [hacked](hack "wikilink"). They can be manually repaired
(manned or unmanned), though the turrets will slowly repair themselves
automatically at all times.

Also known as an [Ancient-Tech Turret](Ancient-Tech_Turret "wikilink").

There is a [known issue](Known_Issues "wikilink") where friendly manned
Ancient Sentry Turrets can appear enemy-controled.

[Category:Game Items](Category:Game_Items "wikilink") [Category:Core
Combat](Category:Core_Combat "wikilink")