The Continental Lattice is a network of links between all
[facilities](facilities "wikilink") and [warpgates](warpgate "wikilink")
on a [continent](continent "wikilink"). This network determines which
base is next available for capture by each Empire. The network can be
viewed on each continent's [Continental Map](Continental_Map "wikilink")
view.

In addition, [Facility Linked
Benefits](Facility_Linked_Benefit "wikilink") and [module
benefits](module_benefit "wikilink") are shared along unbroken chains in
the lattice. Any disruption in this chain, be it a destroyed
[generator](generator "wikilink"), enemy hack, or a base turning
neutral, will break this link and sever the benefit.

Lattice can also refer to the [Galactic
Lattice](Galactic_Lattice "wikilink"), the interstellar network tying
all the [planets](planet "wikilink") and continents together. This can
be viewed from the [Interstellar Map](Interstellar_Map "wikilink")
screen.

## Lattice Colors and their Meaning

A yellow lattice link indicates a potential capture link between
friendly and enemy empires.

A red, blue, or purple link indicate a connection between two friendly
bases of an empire.

A gray link indicates a potential capture link between two enemy
empires, but not your own.

A green link indicates a [Sub-Capitol](Sub-Capitol "wikilink") link,
which controls the [Force Dome](Force_Dome "wikilink") system for
[Continental Capitols](Capitol "wikilink").

## Game Lore

In game fiction terms, the lattice is the web of warpgate energy shunted
through each base to allow for respawn points and the conversion of
nanites into energy for powering systems.

Before [The Bending](The_Bending "wikilink"), lattice networks sprawled
between all warpgates on a continent. After The Bending, and the
appearance of the Battle Islands, some of these warpgates have become
inactive, shifting the lattice links between bases.

[The Story of the Continental
Lattice](http://planetside.station.sony.com/news_story.jsp?story=65061)

[Category:Terminology](Category:Terminology "wikilink") [Category:Game
Guides](Category:Game_Guides "wikilink")