A [base](facilities "wikilink") will go **neutral** when the power level
([NTU](NTU "wikilink")) is completely depleted. Any neutral base can be
hacked by any empire (except for Capitol facilities, which still require
two sub-capitols to capture). However, a base cannot be completely
captured until power is restored. If a base is hacked, and the timer
runs out (or [LLU](LLU "wikilink") is delivered) before power is
rechaged, the hack will be lost, requiring rehacking and waiting another
15 minutes (or delivering LLU again).

[NTUs](NTU "wikilink") are drained by autorepair of destroyed equipment.
See [Structure Armor](Structure_Armor "wikilink") for a list of
destroyable equipment and the time they take to autorepair. Spawning,
creating vehicles, and obtaining equipment at a base does **not**
accelerate the drain. Bases do not lose any energy if the base is
completely repaired. A [Virus](Virus "wikilink") may be installed by
enemies into the [Main Terminal](Main_Terminal "wikilink") doubling the
NTU drain rate. [Capitols](Capitol "wikilink") that have their [Force
Dome](Force_Dome "wikilink") active do not consume NTU for autorepair,
and thus cannot turn neutral.

Any [Modules](Modules "wikilink") installed at the facility when it goes
neutral are destroyed.

Occasionally a special in-game event will cause a base to go **neutral**
without the base being drained first. [Black Ops](Black_Ops "wikilink")
can also hack a facility to turn it neutral.

[Category:Terminology](Category:Terminology "wikilink") [Category:Game
Guides](Category:Game_Guides "wikilink")