# KAAOS

Currently in retirement from the game, but still one of the most widely
recognized [Terran Republic](../../factions/Terran_Republic.md) outfits on
[Emerald](../servers/Emerald.md). KAAOS (Killing As An Organized Sport) had been
with PlanetSide since day one.

Led by it's long-time leader Hedron, KAAOS had made it's mark by their patented
"KAAOS Drops". This drop was marked by the large group of AirCav
([Reavers](../../vehicles/Reaver.md) and/or [Mosquitos](../../vehicles/Mosquito.md))
that flew over a target, and dropped all at once. Once landed, and the door is
breached, they [surged](../../implants/Surge.md) to their target, emphasizing
KAAOS' underlying principle of speed.

In more recent history, KAAOS had also made its mark in the hearts of all
[BFR](../../vehicles/BattleFrame_Robotics.md) pilots. Numbers permitting, the
sargeants of KAAOS would often lead the aircav fleet on Reaver runs to attack
BFRs attacking a base. A leader was called, and that leader went ahead with the
reaver mob behind them. The leader would then call a target BFR, and every pilot
would then unload their reaver's payload into that BFR. About 96% of the BFRs
targetted by this method were destroyed on the first run and any second runs
promised the BFRs demise.

On October 8th, 2005, KAAOS publically announced it's retirement from the game.
A few members of the outfit are still around, but none of them really having the
same effect as KAAOS had before. A few of the members have moved on to other
outfits, while others have decided to stay loyal to the KAAOS name and wear the
tag until the very end of PlanetSide.

Main KAAOS Webpage: <http://www.kaaos.com> Main KAAOS Forums:
<http://forums.kaaos.com> PlanetSide Stats Page:
<http://www.planetsidestats.net/outfits.php?world_id=15&outfit_id=5946>
