**BFR Mayhem** was PlanetSide's first play [Event](/Event "wikilink"),
marking the introduction of [BattleFrame
Robotics](/BattleFrame_Robotics "wikilink") into the game.

This event started with a week in which every character was permitted to
pilot a [BFR](/BFR "wikilink"). However, the BFR was unstable, and many
of its systems would break down, or worse, exploded at random instances,
killing the pilot.

At the end of the week, during that weekend, the second part of the
event began:

All over the planets of the [Auraxian System](/Auraxis "wikilink"),
[Monolith Units](/Monolith "wikilink") began spawning. Their spawning
would turn every facility and tower on the planet
[Neutral](/Neutral "wikilink"). The goal was to move the Monolith Unit
from the Monolith to the [Capitol](/Capitol "wikilink")'s [Main
terminal](/Main_terminal "wikilink").

In order to succeed, each Empire had to capture facilities in order to
capture the Capitol. (This requires holding two
[Sub-Capitols](/Sub-Capitol "wikilink").) The result was a race to
[hack](/hack "wikilink") the [facilities](/facilities "wikilink"), find
the Monolith, capture the Capitol, and move the Monolith Unit to the
Capitol.

Winners of the event for each [Server](:Category:Servers "wikilink")
were posted on the main forums. The prizes were as follows:

- 1st place: Only 5 [Cavern Captures](/Cavern_Captures "wikilink")
  required for a soldier to get their [BFR
  Imprint](/BFR_Imprint "wikilink")

<!-- -->

- 2nd place: Only 7 Cavern captures required for a soldier to get
  their BFR Imprint

<!-- -->

- 3rd place: The standard 10 Cavern captures were required for a
  soldier to get their BFR imprint.

These winning conditions were in place for two weeks after the event,
after which, soldiers from all 3 Empires had to get the full 10 Cavern
captures for their imprint. (Note: The method for gaining the BFR
Imprint was changed in a later patch to require 5 [Cavern
Captures](/Cavern_Captures "wikilink") and 75 kills within the Caverns
for all soldiers.)

[Category:Events](/Category:Events "wikilink")
