**Health**, is a measure of a soldier's physical condition. Health is
shown as a red guage in the [Bio
pane](Heads-up_Display.md#Bio_Pane "wikilink"). If you have no armor, all
damage taken will come from your health, but with armor only a fraction
of the damage will come from your health. [Pain
Fields](Pain_Field.md "wikilink"), the [Radiator](Radiator.md "wikilink"), and
the [Damage Crystal](Damage_Crystal.md "wikilink") bypass your armor and
affect your health directly.

Health can be recovered by using a [MedKit](MedKit.md "wikilink"), [Super
Medkit](Super_Medkit.md "wikilink"), [Medical
Applicator](Medical_Applicator.md "wikilink"),
[Regeneration](Regeneration.md "wikilink") or [Second
Wind](Second_Wind.md "wikilink") [Implants](Implants.md "wikilink") or
standing near a [Health Crystal](Health_Crystal.md "wikilink") or in a
[Medical Terminal](Medical_Terminal.md "wikilink").

The [Health Module](Health_Module.md "wikilink") can also recover your
health. When you are within the [SOI](SOI.md "wikilink") of a base with
this benefit, you health will slowly regenerate. The [Health
Module](Health_Module.md "wikilink") also raises your maximum health to
120/120.

The Health of friendly soldiers can be seen above their heads as a green
bar, if close enough, with black sections indicating damage. The Health
of enemy soldiers can be seen with the [Enhanced
Targeting](Enhanced_Targeting.md "wikilink") Implant, as a red bar.

[Category:Terminology](Category:Terminology.md "wikilink") [Category:Game
Guides](Category:Game_Guides.md "wikilink")
