[thumb](image:Inventory.jpg "wikilink") [Agile
Exo-Suit](Agile_Exo-Suit "wikilink") with [Jammer
grenades](Jammer_grenade "wikilink"), a [Telepad](Telepad "wikilink"), a
[Pulsar](Pulsar "wikilink"), a [REK](REK "wikilink"), and
[MedKits](MedKit "wikilink")\]\]

**Inventory** represents a soldier's personal available storage space.
The inventory space consists of [holsters](holster "wikilink"), from
which [weapons](weapons "wikilink") and certain items can be quickly
retrieved, and general [backpack](backpack "wikilink") space, where
other items of interest may be kept.

Each type of [armor](Armor_Index "wikilink") has a different size of
inventory. [Infiltration Suits](Infiltration_Suit "wikilink") have the
smallest and [MAXes](MAX "wikilink") have the largest. Each inventory
type displays a holster and backpack space. Items placed in the holsters
appear on your avatar.

To open your Inventory, press the "I" key or approach an [Equipment
terminal](Equipment_terminal "wikilink"), [locker](lockers "wikilink"),
or vehicle [trunk](trunk "wikilink") and press the "G" key. This will
open up your Inventory window and allow you to customize your
[loadout](loadout "wikilink").

You may double click or click and drag to place an item in your
inventory. Right-clicking will swap an item between holster slots
depending on their size.

When you die, your backpack will remain where you fell, along with
whatever items were in your inventory at the time. Backpacks will
[deconstruct](deconstruct "wikilink") more rapidly in areas with a
larger number of people or activity going on.

[category:Terminology](category:Terminology "wikilink")