# Minignu's Grunt Help Page

## Introduction

This page shows you how to be a combat grunt in planetside and sets out
the usefulness of various implants, certs, weapons, vehicles and
tactics. THIS IS NOT FOR UB3R GR34T VETERANS this is for those in
planetside who have been around for a bit and want to learn more. I am
TR by the way in case you think i am being biast (and PM me if you think
i am :D ).

## Your Weapons

### Heavy assault

**MCG (minichaingun):** The TR empire specific HA weapon is the MCG. It
packs a hefty punch and spews bullets at an alarming rate. It's range is
superior to both the lasher and jackhammer making it a better choice in
an outdoor situation(it is most effective at 25-30 metre range) although
it does suffer at range against medium assault weapons. It has a very
large clip (100) but can sill run out of bullets quickly. The major
problems with the MCG are its weakness at close range and it's massive
CoF (cone of fire) bloom after taking the slightest bit of damage or
afterit shoots 13 shots at full auto. It is good on defence as it is
able to lay down a wall of fire no non MAX unit will want to get
through. It is best combined with rexo armour as you do not need agility
(unlike the JH) and the extra armour can save your life.

**JH (Jackhammer):** The Jackhammer is the NC HA weapon. It is a triple
barrelled combat shotgun which can make mincemeat of the enemy _IF_ you
get close enough (10- metres is optimum range). It can kill in about 3
shots against non-MAX armour and doesn't require too much aiming. The
main problem is having to get within that optimum range and the fact
that unlike the TR and VS the NC can't lay down a wall of fire with
their weapon and have to rely on other tactics. Problems include it's
slow reload time, it's sometimes rubbish secondary fire and the massive
penalty for missing. The JH is best used combined with agile armour in
order to get close enough to the enemy before you are turned into small
chunks of meat (or in the case of the VS a barbeque rib). The jackhammer
isn't very good outdoors but if you can get in close....It's deadly.

**The lasher:** Some may call it a spam weapon but it does require some
skill to learn how to use it effectively. It has a decent rate of fire
and like the minichaingun it can hold down a backdoor for ages. It's
lasher orbs only do a bit of damage (around 10 hp) but it can be worth
it as it not only hurts multiple enemies but messes up their CoF. It's
optimum range is around 15 metres so it is excellent in indoor fights.
It's inaccuracy makes it weak outdoors compared to MA weapons or the MCG
but this depends on your skill. It's major problem is it's slow moving
projectiles meaning that an enemy can hit you before you have the chance
of hitting them.

**The maelstrom (AT):** This is an ancient tech (AT) weapon meaning it
can only be used IF you both own the core combat expansion and have
access to a cave terminal, cave lock and/or equipment module. It is
extremly powerful in each of it's modes. It's first mode is the Vortex
Whip. This is like a stream of electricity which damages an enemy for as
long as you keep the crosshairs on him. The second and third modes fire
out a grenade that works simarily to the Thumper. The grenade explodes
causing splash damage to those nearby and does incredible damage.
Further, the grenade splash damage can jump from person to person as
long as each successive link in the chain is at 5m or less from the
previous person. The maelstrom benefits from certain mods which recharge
it's ammo making it able to hold backdoors by consatntly spamming the
area.

### Medium Assault:

**Punisher:** Known to many as the "Swiss army knife" of PS weaponry,
the Punisher is versatile but lacks focus. It's grenade launcher is
extremely slow to reload leaving you vulnerable after you fire your
shots. A common mistake for new players is that the punisher's rocket is
good at AV. It isn't. The damage amount is small and the slow reload
time leaves you easy prey for any nearby enemies. In most cases it is
easier just to throw a grenade than use the grenade launcher and without
it the punisher is a sub-par infantry weapon. It is probably best to
avoid unless you are experienced with it.

**Sweeper:** The sweeper is a useful weapon indoors if you can learn to
use it properly. It has enough power to take out most infantry in 4
shots if you can make them all land. This weapon has limited application
outside as it is a shotgun but inside it can be deadly if you can get
within range. With a decent clip, good punch and fair refire rate, the
sweeper is a sound weapon.

**Cycler:** The Terran Republic's Medium Assault is a well rounded
weapon. Compared to the other empire specific Medium Assault weapons,
they have a bigger clip (50 compared to 30) and faster fire rate. It is
accurate in short bursts but blooms when fired for too long.

**Gauss rifle:** This is the New Comglomerate's empire specific weapon
and in line with their empire's way of thinking it deals the most damage
per shot and so can take out a rexo in only 10 shots. It has a small
clip (30), a slower refire rate and slightly less accuracy than the
cycler.

**Pulsar:** My personal favourite, the pulsar has very good accuracy,
high damage and an ability to switch the weapon to fire AP rounds
without having to reload. It has a medium clip (40 rounds) and makes a
cool noise (obviously a plus). I Try to loot as many of these as
possible as i seem to get good kill streaks with them.

### Special assault

**Thumper:** This is a very versatile and powerful weapon in the hands
of an experienced player but can be difficult for the new player to use.
It can fire 3 different types of round:

- Fragmentation grenades: Ideal for the newer player as they have a
  smaller blast radius so it is easier to use without griefing others.
  It also has some (but not much) damage against MAXes.

<!-- -->

- Plasma grenades: Extremely powerful but unpredictable, these weapons
  can do serious damage to enemies but also can be "grief machines" if
  used uncorrectly. Can kill cloakers in a single hit.

<!-- -->

- Jammer grenades: Like normal Jammers these can disable enemy CE,
  detonate boomers from a safe range, deactivate implants and destroy
  vehicular weapon systems. The extra range of the thumper means it is
  easier to disable spitfires, vehicles and implants from a safe
  range. Extremely handy!

**Rocklet rifle:** This weapon can fire in two modes: a normal single
shot mode or a rapid fire mode that fires all the shots in the magazine
at once with a slight decrease to accuracy. It has two ammo types:

- Rocket pod: A single magazine of rocket pods can take out a rexo
  trooper if all the shots hit and can annihilate MAXes in two
  magazines. It can also do decent damage to light vehicles and
  aircraft.

<!-- -->

- Fragmentation ammo: Using the same ammo type as a thumper this mode
  can do decent damage to light vehicles and can take out aircraft
  with far more ease than the rockets due to it's splash damage.

MORE SOON....

[Category:Strategy](Category:Strategy.md "wikilink")
