[**Guide to TR MAX**]('''Guide_to_TR_MAX''' "wikilink")

- this is not ment to be a comprehensive guide for new users but
  should offer some assistance and insight to new MAX users.
  Especially you Newb Uni-MAX owners.

The TR MAX units, in my opinion are the best in the game. Although they
are underpowered compared to the other factions MAX units during normal
operations their special ability (liability and asset) to anchor down
makes them incredibly powerful. I will comment on each of the armament
types seperately.

_AA MAX: BURSTER_ his MAX has the unique ability to target and often
seal the fate of enemy aircraft before they even know what hit them.
This is due to the fact that the flak MAX is dumb fire mode only. Since
it has no missle lock warning, this MAX can fire (especially at range)
all the projectiles required to destroy the aircraft before the first
shell explodes. To be effectively employed you must find an area to
anchor down that avoids exposure to enemy fire and allows you to
overlook an area where aircraft will be spwawning, repairing, or
hovering (ie around bases that are under siege). Then you just have to
anchor down and wait for your chance. I recommend finding high ground
whenever possible. The splash (explosion) radius of the rounds when they
approach an enemy aircraft will allow you to target aircraft around
bases even when they are seeking cover or can no longer be seen.

This MAX weapon is truly only effective against aircraft. Remember this
when you think about attacking that armored vehicle... you are going to
lose. If you get surprised by a softie, even in the rexo suit you can
win a one on one battle provided you do some straffing and the opponent
doesnt have anti vehicular weapons. Once again though, you will be
damaged a lot and likely be killed soon after.

_AV MAX: POUNDER_ This is the best all purpose MAX for the TR. The
mortar projectiles do substantial damage to personnel and aircraft
(although hard to hit) in addition to vehicles and MAX units. I cant
swear to this but I am not sure that any other MAX has a faster time to
kill (TTK) then the Pounder when it is anchored. For that matter if you
are anchored in the AV MAX I would engage anything that appears in front
of you if good cover/escape isnt easily and quickly available. The
reason for this is, first you will likely die thrying to escape anything
you arent willing to engage anyways. Secondly the Pounder does so much
damage to most targets that you will mortally wound, drive away or
destroy many targets if you just get to work on killing them. Dont think
I am crazy... you will almost always lose to Reavers, Gunships, Tanks,
and BFRs. However, if you are anchored and get the drop on an enemy you
will be amazed how quickly you can kill them. Try to find enemies that
are already engaged with other friendlies. If you can get the first full
magazine on target before they recognize you the enemy vehicle will most
likely bail out of the fight or be destroyed.

This MAX is also great for any area where there is a bottle neck. It
pairs well with the dual cycler for back door, tower and other doorway
defenses where the explosion damage almost guarantees hits. Dont forget
that even though the indirect fire of this weapon makes hitting
difficult it also can allow you to attack enemy vehicles over base
walls. The secondary fire mode (three second delay) is useful for
clearing out hallways and to a lesser degree bouncing around corners.

_AI MAX: DUAL CYCLER_ Finally we come to the anti-infantry max for the
TR. This weapon (like all TR weapons) has a high rate of fire and large
magazine size. The weapon is extremely effective against soft targets
and is capable of dizzing rate of fire. One issue with this weapon
system is knowing when to anchor and when not to. The combination of
armor and damage to softies allows you to win almost any one on one
battle (and many against multiple enemies)... damn decimators, not fond
of the lancer either... at close to medium range. You can use this to
incredible effect in close confined quarters. You do suffer damage
degredation at range so keep this in mind. Please save your time and
help out the TR by not getting carried away... although it seems like
you can take on anything (lasers and muzzle flash are sweet) you have
little chance against anything other then softies. I have destroyed noob
mosquito pilots when anchored but I dont recommend attacking anything
but softies. What will happen is... their damage indicator (red
directional flashes) will blow up due to the number of hits and they
will then turn and kill you. I wouldnt even use it against other MAXs
unless you have to.

Strategy tips... We all know that the decimator, phoenix, and lancer
will kill you in no time flat. We all know you are a big target and draw
a lot of attention due to the amount of hurt you can put out and the
fact that you are fairly easy to kill. We should all know that a MAX
suit makes you want to charge in all doors and take on all armor, which
is a bad idea. This could go on forever but this isnt about general MAX
strategy. On to the other TR issue...

_To Anchor or not to Anchor_: If you have played (or read about) a TR
MAX then you know that the ability to anchor is a gift and a curse. On
the one hand you shrink your cone of fire, and almost double the rate of
fire. On the other you become stationary, and loose the ability to fire
and address any threat that isnt in front of you. I will make this as
simple as possible since your playing style and experience will teach
you more about this decision then anything I can write.

Basically, if you are defending an area, or entrance way you should
anchor down. if you have other supporting TR with you to guard your back
or a wall is handy (to guard your back) anchor down. If you sneak up on,
get the jump on, or see an opportunity to really throw down on a target
anchor down. If you know you are going to die and are trying to take as
many with you as you can, anchor down.

The harder part is learning when not to. If you can easily be flanked,
dont have cover to your rear or are surprised by a superior enemy (ie,
tank, BFR, AV troop) dont anchor down. Also beware of hallways where you
can be easily hit "stick and move" style with decimators.

In short, I have gotten more kills by far when anchored down and giving
them hell then I ever have just standing up and staying mobile. When in
the thick of battle, I must also say that along with those kills,
anchoring has dramaticly shortened my life expectency.

AMENDMENT: A recent change to Terran MAXs... The powers at be have added
a max capacitor which allows a noticible increase in rate of fire
without anchoring down. It is all or nothing (once initiated it cant be
stopped) and gives a valuable new resource to users. Although fairly
short in duration the capacitor ability gives you the oportunity push
forward while laying down increased firepower. This ability is quite
usefull when pushing into spawn rooms, up tower stairs, and attacking
CCs. I havent had enough of a chance to use it to issue a verdict. Good
luck with the new tool.

Enjoy the firepower TR and happy hunting.

--[Mudwink](/User:Mudwink "wikilink") 13:40, 31 October 2007 (EDT)Mudwink

[Category:Strategy](/Category:Strategy "wikilink")
