![](images/Meteor.jpg "fig:Meteor.jpg") shower during a special Oshur Prime
[event](event.md "wikilink")\]\]

## [Oshur Prime](Oshur_Prime.md "wikilink")

The name Oshur once belonged to an extremely rough desert continent
consisting of the broken bones of an impact crater. The rough badlands
and choppy terrain made it relatively easy to hide fairly large forces
in what seemed to be plain view. A giant, unexplained avian skeleton lay
fossilized on the continent, giving rise to lively discussions about the
[Ancient Vanu](Ancients.md "wikilink") that were there before.

This single-mass continent is now most commonly referred to as "[Oshur
Prime](Oshur_Prime.md "wikilink")."

## [The Bending](The_Bending.md "wikilink"): [Battle Islands](Battle_Islands.md "wikilink")

When [The Bending](The_Bending.md "wikilink") occurred, ripping apart our
reality and spreading the [Auraxian](Auraxis.md "wikilink") continents
across a dozen worlds, Oshur was erased or torn asunder. In its place
appeared 4 smaller landmasses we now call "The [Battle
Islands](Battle_Islands.md "wikilink")."

## Technical Note

Oshur Prime still exists as a server cluster, however it is not normally
accessible on the "live" servers. Occasionally Oshur will be opened up
on the live server for fighting by a GM, made accessible via [Instant
Action](Instant_Action.md "wikilink"). The battles last until every base
runs out of [NTU](NTU.md "wikilink") as there are no active
[warpgates](warpgate.md "wikilink") for resupply.

## Future of Oshur Prime

On 9-02-05 [Zatozia](Zatozia.md "wikilink") said on the [Official
Forums](http://psforums.station.sony.com/ps/board/message?board.id=psdiscussion&message.id=691905#M691905):

"When we mentioned bringing Oshur back in the past, it was still in the
idea phase. We are still planning on bringing back old Oshur but we have
not set an exact date of when it will return though. We are currently
working on features being put into version 3.9 release. We hope to work
the plans for returning Oshur after 3.9 has been completed and pushed
live. We will keep you updated on it when we can."

On 08 Aug 2006, [Outfit Wars](Outfit_Wars.md "wikilink") were announced,
with Oshur Prime as their theatre of operations.

## [Facilities](Facilities.md "wikilink")

### [Amp Stations](Amp_Station.md "wikilink")

- Mithra

### [Bio Laboratories](Bio_Laboratory.md "wikilink")

- Rashnu
- Yazata
- Zal

### [Dropship Centers](Dropship_Center.md "wikilink")

- Atar

### [Interlink Facilities](Interlink_Facility.md "wikilink")

- Hvar

### [Technology Plants](Technology_Plant.md "wikilink")

- Dahaka
- Izha
- Jamshid

[Category:Locations](Category:Locations.md "wikilink")
