## What is a Rabbit?

**Rabbit** gameplay promotes combat in open areas; quite a difference
from your normal gameplay. When the event starts, a unique anomaly (the
"Rabbit ball") appears at a random location on a designated continent. A
message will be displayed in the chat area announcing where, and the
location of the Rabbit ball will be displayed on your map by an orange
[waypoint](/waypoint "wikilink"). Kills made in close proximity to the
rabbit ball will be rewarded with an extra 25% [experience
point](/BEP "wikilink") bonus to the killer and those in his/her
[squad](/squad "wikilink"), which is added to any [empire
incentive](/Empire_Incentives "wikilink") already in place.

The objective of the Rabbit event is for an empire to keep possession of
the Rabbit ball and accumulate points towards a certain point goal
(typically 1000) before any other empire can reach the same point goal.

## The Rabbit Carrier

Any player of any empire can pick up the Rabbit ball. That player can
also get into a friendly ground [vehicle](/vehicle "wikilink"), subject
to the same vehicle restrictions as an [LLU](/LLU "wikilink") or
[Module](/Module "wikilink") carrier. However, there are additional
restrictions for the Rabbit ball carrier.

The Rabbit ball carrier cannot enter the following areas:

- The [SOI](/SOI "wikilink") of a tower or facility belonging to
  <i>any</i> empire, including neutral facilities.
- Water
- [Warpgates](/Warpgate "wikilink")

If the Rabbit ball carrier enters any of the above areas, the Rabbit
ball resets to another spawn point on the
[continent](/continent "wikilink"). This has sometimes been used by
players to try to make the Rabbit ball spawn inside friendlier territory
on the continent (although it's often a gamble). Players trying to force
a reset will either run into an SOI, "dunk" the Rabbit (run into water),
or make for the nearest warpgate.

The Rabbit ball can also only be carried by a single empire (even if
passed to other friendlies) for the duration of 100 points straight.
After the 100 point streak is reached, the Rabbit ball resets to another
location. However, if another empire comes in possession of the Rabbit
ball (and scores at least 1 point\*), the streak is broken, and another
100 points can be scored by either the empire that has taken the Rabbit
ball, or the first empire if it gets the Rabbit ball back.

The player who is carrying the rabbit ball is immune to friendly fire
and receives 100 [BEP](/BEP "wikilink") for each point scored. The player
will also get health, armor, and stamina regeneration while carrying it.

<font size="1">\*Needs confirmation</font>

## The Rabbit Status

![](/images/RabbitWindow.png "fig:RabbitWindow.png") window showing the score
and other information.\]\] The Rabbit Status Window will appear on the
screen for all players while they are on the zone that is hosting the
Rabbit event. Score points for your [empire](/empire "wikilink") by
carrying the Rabbit ball or gain bonus experience for participating in
battle. A point is scored every five seconds the ball is held. The
empire that reaches the point goal (shown on the Rabbit status window)
wins.

## Empire Rewards

Controlling the Rabbit Ball for a significant amount of time will
ultimately result in a benefit being obtained for the Empire that does
so. These benefits can vary, but may include gaining uncontestable
control for the continent or cave where the event took place for a
period of time, access to enemy weapon or equipment, bonuses to
experience or other perks.

The most common use for a Rabbit event is to end a 3-way battle in a
zone that has lasted many days. The most common reward is a [continental
lock](/continental_lock "wikilink") on that zone for 12 hours.

[Category:Game Guides](/Category:Game_Guides "wikilink")
[Category:Terminology](/Category:Terminology "wikilink")
