The [New Conglomerate](/New_Conglomerate "wikilink") is continuing their
attempts at manipulating the Auraxian [lattice](/lattice "wikilink")
network, this time targeting construction and acquisition pathways in an
attempt to level the playing field of [Auraxis](/Auraxis "wikilink"),
supplementing their arsenal with the situational strengths of their
enemies. Now that the [NC](/NC "wikilink") have initiated this process,
the [TR](/TR "wikilink") and the [VS](/VS "wikilink") have no other choice
but to see this through, fighting to be the Empire with a robust global
arsenal, consisting of familiar and enemy weapons alike.

Starting On Saturday, November 27 at 4 PM Local Server Time, a
[Monolith](/Monolith "wikilink") will emerge on a different continent
every 60 minutes. When the Monolith spawns, that continent will go
completely neutral. Players must deliver the Monolith Unit to that
[continent](/continent "wikilink")'s [Capitol](/Capitol "wikilink")
[facility](/facility "wikilink"). In order to successfully deliver the
MU, the capitol must be controlled by the same
[Empire](/Empire "wikilink") as the player attempting to deliver it.

The Event will run over two days, with monoliths starting at 3 PM on
Sunday. At the end of the two days, the number of successful runs will
be tallied. Whichever Empire has delivered the most Monolith Units will
be considered the winner of the event.

- The Winner will be able to purchase enemy weaponry from the
  equipment terminals. Enemy [Vehicles](/Vehicle "wikilink") and
  [MAXes](/MAX "wikilink") will not be available (though their standard
  arsenal will be).
- The Second Place Empire will be able to access weaponry from the
  Third Place Empire, but not the winner.
- The Third Place Empire will only be able to access their own Empire
  Specific weaponry.

These conditions will run for the three days following the event's end.
Each server will reflect different conditions, based on the Winners on
each.

Get out on the battlefield and run for the guns! Your Empire's arsenal
could open up as never before!

[Category:Events](/Category:Events "wikilink")
