Sons of Vanu plays on the Emerald server.

[www.sonsofvanu.com](http://www.sonsofvanu.com)

member of the United Vanu Alliance,
[www.commandrank5.com](http://www.commandrank5.com)

_Sons of Vanu: A History, by [Rahl](user:Rahl.md "wikilink")_

Late in the Beta testing of the game I was leading squads a lot. One
night I had a particularly awesome squad. We just clicked and had a
great time. We started an outfit and had a ton of fun. When the game
released we all met up again on day one and started our outfit. A few of
those guys are still around. We have grown into one of the larger
outfits and one of the higher point-ranked outfits. Many of our members
have been playing with us since close to release. We still have a lot of
fun. There is a sense of community that keeps us playing even on the
days when the lag makes you wanna put your foot into your screen or the
daunting sound of the triple-shot makes you believe there is an NC
conspiracy large enough to give you a rage-induced stroke.

Our active membership is about 130 with 25-35 players online per day. At
peak, we have about 20 members online. Our membership as listed by
planetside.com includes close to 100 members who have been inactive for
a long time, but who retain their membership because I hope they will
return.

We use [Teamspeak](Teamspeak.md "wikilink") heavily. At first I didn't want
to use voice comm... but now I wouldn't play without it. Mags with
gunner/driver voice comm are frikkin beautiful. The ability to warn your
teammates that there are 4 Vanguards over the hill he is about to cross
has saved our Mags a few times... heh.

Our forums are interesting and a great place to make plans, share cool
new tactics, post screenshots or brag about a nice kill.

We believe strongly in the value of defense and spend a lot of time
utterly destroying an enemies hope of taking our bases. I love a last
minute resecure. Dashing the hopes of the NC and TR makes my day.

Sometimes we use gals, sometimes we use vehicle teams and sometimes we
just fight in the halls. Variety keeps things interesting.

There are few rules, just have fun and treat your fellow players as you
would your friends and allies.

We have many CR5s. Our CR5s tend to be well-liked and of the
non-spamming variety. I believe they all lead well and are appreciated
contributors to the CR5 team.

I really enjoy being a member of Sons of Vanu and I think you would too.
Its a fun group.

Rahl - BR25 CR5 Admiral Sons of Vanu Emerald

For more info send me a tell in-game. I play most nights.
