[Sony Online Entertainment](Sony_Online_Entertainment.md) (SOE) is a computer
game development division of Sony which seems to specialize in Massively
Multiplayer Online Games. SOE is best known for creating EverQuest, Star Wars
Galaxies, and [PlanetSide](PlanetSide.md), which all have thousands of
subscribers. SOE was originally Verant Interactive.

## History

![](images/EverQuest_Box_Art.jpg "EverQuest_Box_Art.jpg")

### EverQuest

_EverQuest_, which is, by far, Sony Online Entertainment's most popular game,
was released on March 16th, 1999. _EverQuest_ can be seen as Sony Online
Entertainment and Verant Interactive's start, as an internal Sony division, Sony
Interactive Studios America (SISA), which was formed in 1995, put John Smedley
in charge of the development of a game that would become _EverQuest_. Brad
McQuaid and Steve Clover were hired as programmers for _EverQuest_.

Sony Online Entertainment was born in April 1998 when Sony Online Ventures with
Sony Pictures Entertainment. SISA became 989 Studios, and _EverQuest_, which was
credited as being developed by 989 Studios and published by SOE, entered beta at
around this time. Most of 989 Studios began to focus on PlayStation development,
while the online division spun off and, at first, became RedEye Interactive and
then finally becoming known as Verant Interactive.

_EverQuest_ became immensely popular and gained ten expansion packs, a sequel,
and numerous spin off games.

![](images/Star_Wars_Galaxies_Box_Art.jpg){ class="figure" }

### Star Wars Galaxies

In April of 2000, SOE hired Raph Koster and Rich Vogel from the Ultima Online
development team to develop a new game entitled _Star Wars Galaxies_. This was a
new foray into massively multiplayer online gaming, combining a popular
franchise into a massively multiplayer setting. The game attempted to attract a
large fanbase with a popular franchise. SWG was released in 2003 and saw rapid
growth to 300,000 subscribers but hasn't seen major growth since then. Star Wars
Galaxies has received two expansion packs, _Jump to Lightspeed_ and _Rage of the
Wookies_. Currently the game is experiencing a major overhaul labled as the NGE.
SOE has decided to focus on a younger age group that lets you take missions for
heros and villians from the movies instead of building your own cities and such
like it was for the past 2 years.

### New Ideas

Sony Online Entertainment has taken several new leaps in Massively Multiplayer
Online gaming with the releases of [PlanetSide](PlanetSide.md) and _EverQuest
Online Adventures_. PlanetSide was one of the first massively multiplayer online
first person shooters, while _EverQuest Online Adventures_ was one of the first
PS2 MMORPG's. Neither turned out to be as popular as SOE's other MMO's, but SOE
still maintains them regardless.

### Current State

Currently, John Smedley is the president of Sony Online Entertainment. It is
headquartered in San Diego, California with studios in Austin, Texas and
Seattle, Washington. Sony Online Entertainment released _EverQuest II_, but it
still maintains many of it's older games, including the original _EverQuest_ and
[PlanetSide](PlanetSide.md).

On January 17, 2005, SOE announced it's new feature called Station Publishing,
which is a new label for distributing titles made by other developers. The first
games under this process are Turbine's Asheron's Call: Throne of Destiny and
Ahseron's Call: Throne of Destiny expansion packs. SOE also makes more casually
oriented games through Station.com, including _Jeopardy! Online_ and _Cosmic
Rift_

## External Links

- [Sony Online Entertainment's Corporate Site](http://sonyonline.com/)
- [_EverQuest_'s Official Site](http://eqlive.station.sony.com/)
- [_Star Wars Galaxies_'s Official Site](http://starwarsgalaxies.station.sony.com/)
- [_PlanetSide_'s Official Site](http://planetside.station.sony.com/)
