# Beginner's Guide to PlanetSide in 2016

Beginner’s Guide to PlanetSide 1 in 2016

- Still receiving updates

Join a squad The first thing you want to do is join a squad. Press “P”, click
the “Find Squad” tab, double click on a listed squad, then click “Join Squad.”

Certifications Your character has limited access to weapons, equipment, and
vehicles by what your character is certified in. Each certification costs a
certain amount of points. Characters start with seven certification points. New
characters already have these certification points spent, so it is recommended
that you go to a Certification Terminal in your empire’s Sanctuary or Bio
Laboratory facilities.

In PlanetSide with current populations, vehicle certifications usefulness are
diminished since most fights take place indoors where vehicles have virtually
zero impact. I will list exceptions to this rule later.

How to repair your armor and heal yourself The certifications of Engineering and
Medical are convenient for repairing your armor and healing yourself
respectively. However, newer characters may not always have access to these
certifications. There are very valid workarounds, although they typically
Fortunately, most of the combat in PlanetSide with current populations revolve
around battling near Equipment Terminals.

To repair your armor without Engineering (regular armor, not MAX or Infiltration
Suit): Go to an Equipment Terminal Choose a loadout of a different armor type
you are currently wearing Choose the loadout of the armor type you were wearing

`(Hotkey process: G → # → G → #)`

This will repair your armor to full. Be warned, if you change loadouts to the
armor type you were wearing, the armor will not be healed.

To repair your armor while in a MAX If you are in a MAX suit, you can repair
your armor by going to a Medical Terminal. It may be more convenient in the heat
of battle to have a player repair you. You can inform nearby players that you
need repairs by using a voice macro. (Keys: V-N-R).

- - One very useful tip/trick, if you standing directly behind someone at point
    blank range, they can repair you. This is extremely useful if that player is
    third person camping. It is important to note that not all players will know
    about this trick.

To heal yourself without Medical/Medical Applicator Not having Medical is less
convenient than not having Engineering. The reason for this is Medkits, one of
the few pieces of equipment that everyone has access to, regardless of their
certifications. Medkits can be used to heal yourself for 25 health every 5
seconds. They are useful and in the thick of battle because they essentially
increase your effective health -- they are instant cast and don’t require any
weapon change. \*\*For this reason, I recommend switching the Medkit hotkey to a
button that is easy to hit, other than the default of F1. Personally, I use
Right Click so I don’t have to move my keyboard hand (responsible for movement
in fights) to press it.

Medkits can be useful out of combat when you don’t have Medical or don’t have a
Medical Applicator. Typical Reinforced Exosuit loadouts contain 2-4 Medkits. If
you don’t have Medical, and/or access to many certifications such as
Anti-Vehicular, you can often times make room for more. For instance, I have a
specific loadout that contains 8 Medkits in Reinforced Exosuit. Typical Agile
Exosuit loadouts contain 1-3 Medkits, depending whether or not you take a
Decimator or not, and if you take extra hand grenades.

In downtime between fighting, make your way to an equipment terminal. One of the
main advantages of Medical is that you can heal yourself with a lot more
inventory efficiency than with Medkits, and that you don’t waste Medkits for
downtime instead of fighting. However, since most fights take place near
Equipment Terminals in current day PlanetSide, this advantage is mostly negated.
Take as many opportunities as possible in downtime to return to Equipment
Terminals and replenish your loadout with Medkits, as well as using the armor
swap trick to repair your armor. These two methods will make the lack of
Engineering and Medical certifications much less painful.

Combat

`There are a few important aspects to combat in PlanetSide that are important to learn about as a beginner.`

Movement/Strafing

`Strafing is an important part of infantry combat. In this game, strafe movement is quicker compared to other games in the FPS genre, so you can help mitigate damage through good movement. Strafing side to side (A-D-A-D) for approximately one second in each direction is a sweet spot that can create a rubber-banding or ‘warping’ effect that can throw off an enemy’s aim. Sometimes you’ll want to take a longer strafe and throw the warping strafe in to throw off an enemy. The more unpredictable your movement (while simultaneously integrating the warping strafe) the better.`

Agile ExoSuit moves and strafes faster, so this effect can be more prominent
when using it. Additionally, you can more easily execute circle strafing or
flanking maneuvers. However, it requires some pretty good skill and game sense
to do so.

Third Person/Camping

`Since there is a third person mode that allows you to see around corners (albeit not aim), many players will camp corners to gain advantages in combat, waiting for unsuspecting troops to push forward. While it’s not always a guaranteed kill, it benefits the defender greatly in a lot of cases (particularly 1v1 situations). If you are uncertain if an enemy is around a corner, throw a hand grenade at it to determine if an enemy is there or not. If the cone of fire appears, then you hit something.`

Boomers (Spawned through Combat Engineering’s ACE Device) are very deadly remote
controlled mines used primarily indoors by third person campers to get an
instant kill on enemy infantry or do heavy damage to MAX units. You can use
third person to check corners in a hostile area before you proceed. If you spot
a boomer (a gold, triangle shaped mine), you can throw a Jammer grenade around
the corner to destroy it. Boomers are often a newbie trap, but using this
technique will highly mitigate their threat.

Radar Your minimap in game displays the location of friendly and enemy players,
MAXs, and vehicles. Friendly are green -- enemy are red. Radar viruses can
influence this sometimes, but they are typically rare. It’s important to keep an
eye on red dots and bracket looking blips while indoors. If your base has
Interlink benefits, you can see enemies if they are moving (running) while not
crouched or walking. You can also get a similar effect from using the Audio
Amplification Implant, which should typically be your first or second Implant
pickup. This is an important part of the game that many people utilize to their
advantage. It is important you do so as well.

New Character Quick List: Go to the Certification Terminal in the HART Building
Access the Certification Terminal using the “G” Key Forget certifications: ATV
and Harasser Get to the fight using Instant Action (/instantaction, or Escape
\> Instant Action) OR board the HART in the HART Building. Join a squad (P \>
Find Squad). As you gain Battle Rank, return to Sanctuary or go to a Bio
Laboratory facility to spend certification points. Certification Build Quick
List (Infantry focused on effective killing ASAP): Forget ATV and Harasser At
BR3: Certify Heavy Assault At BR6: Certify Engineering OR Anti-Vehicular AND
Implant Surge OR Audio Amplifier At BR9: Certify Engineering OR Anti-Vehicular
At BR12: Certify Medical AND Implant Surge OR Audio Amplifier

Certification Build Quick List (Infantry focused on support/self-reliance ASAP):
Forget ATV and Harasser At BR2: Certify Engineering At BR5: Certify Medical OR
At BR6: Certify Heavy Assault At BR9: Certify Heavy Assault OR Certify Medical
At BR12: Implant Surge OR Audio Amplifier

Certification Build Quick List (MAX/Mech Suit or Vehicle Driver/Pilot) Forget
ATV, Harasser, and Reinforced Exosuit Certify Uni-MAX Spend additional
certification points based on personal preference At BR6: Implant Advanced
Targeting or Surge At BR12: Implant Advanced Targeting or Surge

Loadouts As a rule of thumb, all loadouts should contain a Remote Electronics
Kit (REK)! A REK is needed to hack doors and Control Consoles. Additionally, it
is needed to hack Equipment Terminals with Advanced Hacking. If you don’t have
one, you can find yourself stuck outside an enemy base or unable to hack an
enemy Control Console!

If you are a new character who lacks the Anti-Vehicular certification, it is
recommended that you bring some Gold Ammo (Armor Piercing) boxes into your
loadout to help deal with MAX Units.

Newer players with less certifications will probably be more interested in the
alternative loadouts requiring less certifications.

- - NOTE: These are the Terran Republic versions of loadouts. New Conglomerate
    and Vanu Sovereignty will have to use their equivalent empire specific
    weapons and respective ammo.

Reinforced ExoSuit (Rexo) -- Standard Loadout

Loadout Notes Equipment Used: Remote Electronics Kit (REK) Medkit x2
Mini-Chaingun -- Heavy Assault Decimator x2 -- Anti-Vehicular Medical Applicator
-- Medical

`**If you lack Medical, can use REK as a Sidearm instead`

Body Armor Nano Kit (BANK) -- Engineering

`**If you lack Engineering, can use REK as a Sidearm instead`

Adaptive Construction Engine (ACE) -- Combat Engineering Command Uplink Device
(CUD) -- Command Rank 2

`**If you lack these, can replace for additional ammo`

Alternatives

Extra Health/Armor canisters at the cost of one Medkit, and one set of hand
grenades. Good for Generator Holds and/or taking a more backline support role.

A good loadout particularly if you don’t have Medical or Anti-Vehicular

Agile ExoSuit (Agile) -- Standard Loadout

Loadout Notes Equipment Used: Remote Electronics Kit (REK) Medkit Mini-Chaingun
-- Heavy Assault Decimator -- Anti-Vehicular

`**If you lack Anti-Vehicular, can replace for more ammo/medkits/grenades.`

Medical Applicator -- Medical

- - If you lack Medical, can use REK as a Sidearm instead

Body Armor Nano Kit (BANK) -- Engineering

`**If you lack Engineering, can use REK as a Sidearm instead`

Adaptive Construction Engine (ACE) -- Combat Engineering Command Uplink Device
(CUD) -- Command Rank 2

`**If you lack this, can replace for additional ammo`

Alternatives If you don’t have Anti-Vehicular (likely for newer players), then
this loadout is preferred:

Can replace ACE, Medical Applicator, and BANK for more Ammo if you lack Combat
Engineering, Medical, or Engineering

Respawning You can’t go into battle expecting not to die! When you do end up
dying, the spawn screen will appear. This consists of usually two or three
respawn points. This would be the closest Tower, Facility, and Advanced Mobile
Station (AMS) if available. You have to wait a certain amount of time based on
your number of deaths before respawning. This ranges anywhere between one second
and one minute. When the timer ends, you materialize in a respawn tube. If you
don’t like where you have spawned or wish to respawn somewhere else, go into the
Respawn Tube and press “G” to deconstruct your avatar. On the AMS, the respawn
tube is located at the back of the vehicle.

Scattered throughout the facilities are Matrixing Panels. By hitting “G” you
bind yourself at that facility. An AMS will have a Matrix Panel as well, and is
located on the very front of the vehicle. Binding at a facility will let you
respawn at that facility, even if it isn’t the closest. You can only be bound to
one facility and one AMS at a time.

Advanced Mobile Station (AMS) The AMS is a vehicle that serves as a mobile spawn
point. It also features a Matrixing Panel at the front and two Equipment
Terminals on either side. If you wish to deconstruct yourself, you can do so by
going to the rear end of the AMS. The AMS can be acquired from a Vehicle
Terminal by certing Ground Support.

- - NOTE: When populations are extremely low, it is sometimes considered
    unethical to camp or destroy spawns, particularly an AMS. The reason for
    this is that it kills the fight for a while, leading to meaningless
    downtime. This isn’t a problem when the game has enough players to work
    correctly from a design perspective. However, when populations are extremely
    low, sometimes it’s considered bad etiquette to do so. Use your best
    judgment!
