The **Mechanized Assault Exo-Suit**—or **MAX** unit—provides a huge amount of
protection for its wearer (650 armor points). The heavy armor means that MAX
units turn and move slower than typical infantry. All MAX units have a
"Run-Mode" function that enables the user to travel faster than normal at the
cost of all weapons being disabled while in this mode. Each
[Empire](../terminology/Empire.md) has its own MAX armor, and the integrated
weapon is tuned for one of three purposes: Anti-Infantry, Anti-Vehicle, and
Anti-Aircraft.

Each Empire's MAX units also have a special ability which improves their
effectiveness in the field.

Each type of armor has its own
[certification](../certifications/Certifications.md), although the
[Uni-MAX](../certifications/Uni-MAX_(Certification).md) certification gives
access to all three types of MAX armor at a reduced cost.

## [New Conglomerate](../etc/New_Conglomerate.md)

![](../images/NCMAXArmors2.jpg "fig:NCMAXArmors2.jpg") MAX Armor at, from left
to right, [Battle Rank](../terminology/Battle_Rank.md) 1, 7, 14 and 25\]\]
Anti-Infantry: [Scattercannon](Scattercannon.md) Anti-Vehicle:
[Falcon](Falcon.md) Anti-Aircraft: [Sparrow](Sparrow.md) _New Conglomerate_ MAX
Units are equipped with a light energy shield. The shield draws power from from
an onboard MAX Capacitor. Once depleted, the capacitor will recharge. The MAX
Unit cannot fire when the Shield is active.

## [Terran Republic](../etc/Terran_Republic.md)

![](../images/TRMAXArmor2.jpg "fig:TRMAXArmor2.jpg") MAX Armor at, from left to
right, [Battle Rank](../terminology/Battle_Rank.md) 1, 7, 14 and 25\]\]
Anti-Infantry: [Dual-Cycler](Dual-Cycler.md) Anti-Vehicle: [Pounder](Pounder.md)
Anti-Aircraft: [Burster](Burster.md) _Terran Republic_ MAX Units have 2 special
abilities. The first is the ability to "lock down", doubling their rate of fire
and reducing the [Cone of fire](../terminology/Cone_of_fire.md) at the cost of no
movement. Aiming is possible, but the range of pivot is extremely reduced. The
second is "overdrive" which, similar to the NC and VS MAXes, works off
capacitor. When active, the MAX can fire at 1.5x the normal rate and still move
around. Overdrive is "all-or-nothing," meaning that once active, it cannot be
turned off until the capacitor is drained. The MAX may not lock down or auto-run
while in overdrive. MAXes with overdrive active will glow red.

## [Vanu Sovereignty](../etc/Vanu_Sovereignty.md)

![](../images/VS_MAXs.jpg "fig:VS_MAXs.jpg") MAX Armor at, from left to right,
[Battle Rank](../terminology/Battle_Rank.md) 1, 7, 14 and 25\]\] Anti-Infantry:
[Quasar](Quasar.md) Anti-Vehicle: [Comet](Comet.md) Anti-Aircraft:
[Starfire](Starfire.md) _Vanu Sovereignty_ MAX Units are equipped with limited
jump-jets. These jump jets draw power from an onboard MAX Capacitor. Once
depleted, the capacitor will recharge.


