Command Rank 0(CR0)

All characters start at this command level. No special abilities are
available. Command Rank 1(CR1)

The ability to place four (4) Waypoints on the overhead map is awarded.
The Waypoints are visible to all members of the Squad/Platoon that the
CR1 (or above) is leading. The command /sitrep becomes available, which
reports to the Command Rank above you (eg. CR1's sitrep to CR2's). The
text received by the next highest CR is prefixed by \[Situation
Report\]. Left shinguard (or spat for the Vanu Sovereignty) is added to
the character's uniform. Command Rank 2(CR2)

Characters at CR2 are given access to use the Command Uplink Device
(CUD), which enables the use of higher level command functions. At CR2,
the 'Reveal Friendlies' option, which allows the user to see the
position of all Friendly Forces on his current Continent for a short
duration on his Continental Map CR2's have access to Command Chat, a
separate chat channel that will allow them to speak with other CR2's
that are in a SOI Range of them. Sent via the /c command. The Uniform
upgrade for a CR2 is the right shinguard (or spat for the Vanu
Sovereignty). Command Rank 3(CR3)

CR3's are given the ability to use Battleplans, enabling them to draw on
and label the Planetary maps. (Note: This ability will function ONLY if
the CR3 is the Squad Leader or if in a Platoon, the Platoon Leader.)
Additionally, the CUD may be used to emit an Electro-Magnetic Pulse
(EMP) in a 10 meter radius around the player, which disables Implants,
Vehicle Weaponry (excluding BattleFrame Robotics Weaponry), and Spitfire
Turret/Motion Sensors, and also sets off all enemy High Explosive Mines
and Remote Detonated Charges (Boomers). Ability to change the squad
experience waypoint to follow squad members other than the squad leader.
Command Chat will now reach CR3's within a wider radius. The first
wristguard is added to the left side of the character's uniform. Command
Rank 4 (CR4)

CR4's are given access to the Orbital Strike (10 meter radius), accessed
through the CUD. Deployed from space stations orbiting the individual
planets (known as Orbital Stations), the Orbital Strike is a devastating
attack that can turn the tide of a battle. The 'Reveal Enemies' option
becomes available through the CUD. Showing all Enemies in its radius as
red dots on your overhead map. The radius on the EMP is increased to 15
meter. Command Chat will now speak to all CR4's on the continent. The
second wristguard is added to the right side of the character's uniform.
Command Rank 5 (CR5)

A Vanu Sovereignty CR5's backpack

A Vanu Sovereignty CR5's backpack A New Conglomerate CR5's backpack

A New Conglomerate CR5's backpack A Terran Republic CR5's backpack

A Terran Republic CR5's backpack

CR5's have the ability to perform 'Global' Broadcasts to every player on
every planet on the server. Additionally they can 'Global' to individual
continents, including the Sanctuaries.

CR5 Command Chat is 'Global', meaning that CR5's can communicate with
all CR5's regardless of location.

The radius of the Orbital Strike is increased to 20 meters, the damage
is also increased.

The radius of the EMP is increased to 20 meters and the 'Reveal Enemies'
Command is also increased.

Ability to set the squad experience waypoint to two different squad
members at the same time if the squad is large enough.

A Communications Pack is added to the uniform of the character. Commonly
referred to as 'The Backpack'.

<!--[Category:Terminology](Category:Terminology.md)-->
