## ESC Key Options

Recall to Sanctuary : Returns you to your Empire's
[Sanctuary](../locations/Sanctuary.md) after a set time: Friendly area, 10s,
Neutral area, 20s, Enemy area, 30s. Game Options : Opens the
[Game Options Window](#Game_Options), allowing you to adjust your Gameplay
defaults such as session stats, [HUD](Heads-up_Display.md) preferences, and
[proximity radar](Proximity_Map.md) settings. Color Options :
Opens the [Color Options Window](#Color_Options), allowing you to change colors
for chat channels and name tags. Video Options : Opens the
[Video Options Window](#Video_Options), allowing you to adjust your Video
settings. These changes will be reflected the next time you start PlanetSide.
Audio Options : Opens the [Audio Options Window](#Audio_Options), allowing you
to adjust your Audio settings. Key Mappings : Opens the
[Keymappings Window](#Keymappings), allowing you to change your control scheme
[Instant Action](Instant_Action.md) : When selecting this item,
your character will be deployed to a location near a
[Hotspot](Hotspot.md).

## Video Options

### General Options

Full Screen : If you don't know what this is, go back to Windows for Dummies.
Suffice it to say that running Planetside windowed is generally a severe drag on
your framerate, and there's absolutely no reason you should attempt it. If you
have a top-of-the-line system, then you might be able to squeeze by, but in that
case, what are you reading this for? Screen Resolution : Higher resolution means
more pixels on the screen, and that means your graphics card has to draw more
pixels every frame, which slows it down. If you want better framerates, decrease
this, though there's no reason to go below 1024x768, and if you do, the HUD will
be cramping your display to the extreme. Gamma Brightness and Gamma Contrast :
These are monitor hardware settings and have nothing to do with framerates.
Usually you won't ever touch them, but if the screen looks too dark or
washed-out while you're playing, try sliding these around. Note that if
Planetside CTDs while you're playing with an other-than-normal gamma setting,
your desktop will keep that setting, and you'll probably have to restart your
computer or dig into your graphics card settings to get rid of it. Not fun.
Video Quality : Just a way to select from some pre-set video options. You can
completely ignore this, it's better to do all the tweaking yourself to get a
nice balance between good looks and good framerates. Viewing Distance : Affects
how far you can see. As you decrease this, you'll see the view-distance "fog"
rolling in to decrease your vision range. Less things that you can see means
less things the graphics card has to draw, and better framerates. Don't worry,
though; if you have everything else set way down low, you can crank this up to
maximum with hardly any impact on your FPS. Besides, you don't want other people
to be able to see farther than you can, do you? Video Bit-Depth : Affects how
many colors are available to Planetside for drawing, well, everything. If you
decrease this to 16-bit, your FPS will nearly double, but be warned, it makes
the game look like total crap and nearly always causes catastrophic shearing. Do
this only if you've tried everything else and your framerates are still
unbearable, and I do mean unbearable. Texture Quality : Affects how blurry
objects in the game look. The lower you go, the less sharply-defined they get,
but the higher your framerates go. Increasing this setting by one step is
roughly equivalent to doubling the amount of RAM Planetside needs to keep
running, so use with caution. Setting this to "Low" can be a big framerate
booster, and unlike changing to 16-bit color, things don't look too bad unless
you get up close and personal. If High just isn't good enough for you, and
you're running the Cray supercomputer, you can take this to the next level of
detail under Advanced. Particle Effects : Particles come in all sorts of guises,
but one mark of their appearance is that they usually don't last for very long.
You can find particles in puffs of vehicle exhaust, explosions of any kind,
orbital strikes, and more. This option sets the detail level of the particles
and affects how cool things that involve particles look, as well as how many of
them are created. If you set this to Low, you might not even see some particle
effects at all. It doesn't make that much of a difference, but it can indeed
impact your framerate if there's a ton of battle activity in the area.

- **Addition by Raidin** - Another thing worth mentioning is that when you raise
  this to High, it turns on dynamic lighting for muzzle flashes on most, if not
  all weapons. Dynamic lighting does take its toll on FPS, and can slow you down
  to a crawl on an average video card if you have several people firing their
  weapons on-screen at once. Try all 3 settings with some friends to find your
  favorite.

Flora Density : Affects how much planty stuff appears on the ground around you,
thus enhancing the realism. Thank goodness this can be turned off, because even
on Low, it sucks FPS like mad. The reason is that it uses a ton of alpha
transparency, which takes your video card a while to compute and slows it down.
Turn it Off for best performance. Mesh Detail (by Raidin) : This increases the
polygon count on player and weapon models. They look better up-close but your
video card has to render those extra polys. From my experience, the FPS decrease
is negligible. The increase in graphic quality, however, is worth it, IMO.
Experiment for yourselves.

- **Addition by Sokko:** I must admit he's right. Since it hardly ever impacts
  your framerate, the increase in detail when you're looking at something close
  to you is well worth it. Without this turned on, weapons especially look far
  too blocky for you to even recognize. Turn it on unless you're working with
  a 386.

Draw Detail Web : Turning this on will make a large area of the terrain around
you (the part you're usually concerned about) appear more detailed, though
far-off terrain remains the same. Though it certainly looks pretty, it really
does a number on your framerate, dropping it by 20 or more in some cases. Best
to leave it off. Warpgate Effect : The weird little effect that shows when an
object moves through (or stops at, in the case of shots) a warpgate bubble. So
far as I can tell, it doesn't make a significant difference where framerate is
concerned. Oddly enough, you must have Bullet Holes turned on in order for this
to work. Bullet Holes : If you turn this on, bullet-based weapons will leave
holes in the walls. Drawing all those extra decals does impact framerate, but
not as much as you'd think. Like the above, it's a matter of whether you want
those few extra FPS or not, and remember that you have to turn this on for the
Warpgate Effect to show up.

- **Note:** When a large weapon impacts
  [One-Manned Field Turrets](../weapons/One-Manned_Field_Turret.md), it leaves a
  black "burn" mark. Over time, these build up into a black sheet, which can
  block the vision of the gunner in certain directions. If you gun field turrets
  often, it's best to keep this option off.

Shadows On/Off : If turned on, people and vehicles will cast shadows on the
ground. It's a bit more of a significant impact on framerate than the Bullet
Holes, and it's not really that much of a visual difference. Off is recommended.
Weather Particles : Different from regular particles, weather particles are what
appear when a weather front moves into town, like that ever actually happens
(c'mon, devs, you can do better than that!). Thunderstorms, snowstorms, dust
storms, all are composed of weather particles. None of these have a really
significant impact on framerate at all. Leaving it off does not create a
tactical advantage, since even if you can't see the weather particles, it's the
view distance fog moving in that matters.

- **Note by Marutuk:** Apparently you now need to have the Skydome turned on for
  this option to work.

Skydome : This draws a whole bunch of eye candy up in the sky, which affects
your framerate so randomly it's best to experiment with it for yourself. As
stated above, you must have this turned on for Weather Particles to appear.

### Advanced Options

Texture Quality (32 bit) : Click this on, and get ready for a whole world of
hurt in the graphics card department. Checking it is like selecting "Super High"
in the Texture Quality on the previous tab. If you do, you can select which
textures this should apply to by checking the big group of boxes in the lower
half of this tab. Trust me, never check this box unless you've got the
Batcomputer sitting on your desktop. Vertical Sync : Simply put, it makes the
game easier on the eyes. If the graphics seem "flickery" to you or your eyes
start to ache after a while playing, turn this on, but be warned that it does
negatively impact your framerate. Also, sometimes your graphics card will
already have VSync turned on by itself, so checking this will make no
difference. Use triple buffer : Does what it says on the tooltip: It makes the
game run smoother, but it uses a bit more RAM to do so. Checking this box will
speed up your framerate and eliminate lots of freezing if you have enough RAM,
but can negatively affect it if you don't. Fiddle around with it to find the
best setting, and don't forget to try out a full-fledged battle or two while
you're testing. Cull Animations : If this box is checked, the game will make
player animations more jerky if your framerate is starting to suffer from a lot
of activity in the area, thus making things easier on your graphics card. A lot
of people just can't stand those jerky animations, so they turn this off. It
does make a difference, but the actual amount of difference varies wildly.
Select the mode for preloading textures : Shouldn't be touched under normal
circumstances. As the text says, "All" will let Planetside take care of things
for you, and is generally the best way to do things performance-wise. If you're
really desperate, you can try setting this to other things, but don't expect a
miracle. Reserved Texture : Defines a chunk of RAM that's used to store textures
for quick copying to the VRAM on your graphics card, so they don't have to be
loaded from the hard disk. Making it larger will get you smoother framerates
(especially if you've increased the Texture Quality), but it might also slow
things down because the game has less RAM to store other things in. Leaving it
at the lowest setting is not recommended unless you have 512MB or less of RAM,
so experiment to find out the highest it can safely go without impacting
performance. Note that this should be the LAST bit of experimenting you do,
after you finish setting all the other options. One perk of this option is that
you don't have to restart PS for it to take effect; loading another continent
and just playing for a bit is sufficient for it to fully kick in. Use detailed
vehicles : Turning this off will make vehicles slightly less detailed and give
them a different paint job. This doesn't make much of a difference FPS-wise
unless there are a lot of vehicles in the area, and it has been known to cause
graphical glitches (like detached thruster pods), so you should probably leave
it on unless you REALLY like the alternate color scheme (ugh).

## Keymappings

### Keyboard Settings

### Mouse Settings

### Joystick Settings

## Game Options

Always Run : Self explanatory, if checked your character will always run, if not
you will walk. Show First Time Help : Show first time help dialogs for your new
character. Chat Colors : Show embedded chat colors. Hide UI : Hides the user
interface when taking screenshots. Show one Squad per line : When displaying
Platoons, put each squad's members on their own line. Allow Squad List Overlap :
Allow other UI windows to overlap the Squad/Platoon list (to save screen space).
Auto Reload : If selected, you will automatically reload your weapon if it runs
out of ammunition. [LFS](LFS.md) Auto On : If selected, the
Looking For Squad (LFS) flag will be automatically set on your character when
they enter the world. Enable [Map](Map.md) edge scroll : If
selected, you can pan around the overhead map by positioning your mouse cursor
near the edge of the map in the direction you want to pan. If not selected, you
must click and drag to pan around the map. Invert Map Mousewheel Zoom : reverses
the zoom direction of the mousewheel when viewing the map. Show Damage Flash :
If selected, the screen flashes red when you take damage. Render Names :
Determine which names will appear over friendly soldiers and vehicles. Your
choices are Player, Player and Outfit, and none. Bandwidth Settings : Modem
users should pick "Low". Other users should experiment between "Medium" and
"High" to see which setting is best.
[Proximity Radar](Proximity_Map.md) Range Settings : **Rotate
Radar:** If selected, the proximity map will rotate about the player (so the
player's arrow always faces up). **Use Automatic Ranges:** Automatically change
the current range of the proximity map.

## Audio Options

## Color Options

**Article in progress**
