## What is a Rabbit?

**Rabbit** gameplay promotes combat in open areas; quite a difference from your
normal gameplay. When the event starts, a unique anomaly (the "Rabbit ball")
appears at a random location on a designated continent. A message will be
displayed in the chat area announcing where, and the location of the Rabbit ball
will be displayed on your map by an orange [waypoint](Waypoint.md). Kills made
in close proximity to the rabbit ball will be rewarded with an extra 25%
[experience point](BEP.md) bonus to the killer and those in his/her
[squad](Squad.md), which is added to any
[empire incentive](../etc/Empire_Incentives.md) already in place.

The objective of the Rabbit event is for an empire to keep possession of the
Rabbit ball and accumulate points towards a certain point goal (typically 1000)
before any other empire can reach the same point goal.

## The Rabbit Carrier

Any player of any empire can pick up the Rabbit ball. That player can also get
into a friendly ground [vehicle](../vehicles/Vehicle.md), subject to the same
vehicle restrictions as an [LLU](Lattice_Logic_Unit.md) or [Module](Module.md)
carrier. However, there are additional restrictions for the Rabbit ball carrier.

The Rabbit ball carrier cannot enter the following areas:

- The [SOI](../locations/Sphere_of_Influence.md) of a tower or facility
  belonging to <i>any</i> empire, including neutral facilities.
- Water
- [Warpgates](../locations/Warpgate.md)

If the Rabbit ball carrier enters any of the above areas, the Rabbit ball resets
to another spawn point on the [continent](../locations/Continent.md). This has
sometimes been used by players to try to make the Rabbit ball spawn inside
friendlier territory on the continent (although it's often a gamble). Players
trying to force a reset will either run into an SOI, "dunk" the Rabbit (run into
water), or make for the nearest warpgate.

The Rabbit ball can also only be carried by a single empire (even if passed to
other friendlies) for the duration of 100 points straight. After the 100 point
streak is reached, the Rabbit ball resets to another location. However, if
another empire comes in possession of the Rabbit ball (and scores at least 1
point\*), the streak is broken, and another 100 points can be scored by either
the empire that has taken the Rabbit ball, or the first empire if it gets the
Rabbit ball back.

The player who is carrying the rabbit ball is immune to friendly fire and
receives 100 [BEP](BEP.md) for each point scored. The player will also get
health, armor, and stamina regeneration while carrying it.

<font size="1">\*Needs confirmation</font>

## The Rabbit Status

![](../images/RabbitWindow.png "fig:RabbitWindow.png") window showing the score
and other information.\]\] The Rabbit Status Window will appear on the screen
for all players while they are on the zone that is hosting the Rabbit event.
Score points for your [empire](Empire.md) by carrying the Rabbit ball or gain
bonus experience for participating in battle. A point is scored every five
seconds the ball is held. The empire that reaches the point goal (shown on the
Rabbit status window) wins.

## Empire Rewards

Controlling the Rabbit Ball for a significant amount of time will ultimately
result in a benefit being obtained for the Empire that does so. These benefits
can vary, but may include gaining uncontestable control for the continent or
cave where the event took place for a period of time, access to enemy weapon or
equipment, bonuses to experience or other perks.

The most common use for a Rabbit event is to end a 3-way battle in a zone that
has lasted many days. The most common reward is a
[continental lock](../etc/Continental_lock.md) on that zone for 12 hours.

<!--[Category:Game Guides](Category:Game_Guides.md)-->
<!--[Category:Terminology](Category:Terminology.md)-->
